hi everyone I'm David mclin and over the
past year I've helped more than 30,000
students get their PMP certification and
I've also taken more than a thousand
practice questions myself some directly
from PMI and in putting those two things
together I've found a few key things
that really work when you're answering
questions on your PMP exam it's sort of
a cheat sheet if you will in fact I've
called it the PMP fast trck because
these few little tips and tricks that
I'm about to share with you now will
actually really help you to pass your
PMP exam whether you're good at taking
tests or whether you've studied all of
these things already it will really
really help you and it will just help
you understand what you need to do and
what you need to know for your exam as
well these little few tips and tricks
it's going to be fantastic also I've
already got this on my course which is
my udemy course the link in the
description is below I'm going to make
this available as a download for the
videos and a download for this um for
this presentation so those in the course
can get that and for this particular on
YouTube I'm not sure how long I'm going
to keep it up I did want to give a
version out there for free just because
I used a lot of free resources when I
was getting my PMP and it honestly it
helped turn my life around it truly
changed my career so I just want to give
back a little bit let's get into it
anyway that's enough of me waffling on
uh there's three key sections to the PMP
FasTrack and that is people so the
people uh conflict and Leadership that
we're going to need to know when we're
answering PMP questions the process so
agile process and the predictive process
what do we do when what are the steps
that we need to go through uh when we're
in a certain phase of our project so
that we can answer the question
correctly and then there's a there's a
little thing here cuz uh you'll notice
that these actually match up with the
pmi's talent triangle so power skills
which is people skills way of working
which is our process but business Acumen
uh that one is just so simple it really
is just deliver value and we'll go
through that in a second so uh we didn't
need a whole section on that what I've
done is replaced that with some general
exam tips now I've given these General
exam tips before if you've seen them
already then just skip past that section
but if you haven't these will truly take
your PMP exam to the next level just
these exam tips by themselves will help
you pass the PMP exam so it'll really
really up your game so I think that's
the next one up so let's get straight
into the general exam tips and then we
can get into the real really good stuff
of the PMP Fast Track after that all
right General tips again I won't go
through these in a lot of detail because
we've been through them already when you
take the PMP exam you're probably going
to see the majority of questions
scenario based something's going wrong
we need to solve that problem scenario
with our project management and our
people's skills which is why those
things are so important and our project
management processes usually you'll have
two or three answers that seem correct
and we have to choose the most correct
answer so it's really really quite
tricky so here are the first five tips
in the general exam Fast Track when you
go through the question highlight all
the keywords yes it is a digital exam
but you have some tools it's like a
little PowerPoint presentation similar
to what you're looking at now you can
actually highlight the key words uh so
is it about risk is it about uh is it
about scope is it about the project
sponsor or is it about conflict what is
it exactly about uh all the information
you need is going to be included in the
question so don't worry about missing
something now we wanted to determine if
the project is predictive agile or
hybrid uh and we need to do that because
we're going to respond to the question
differently depending on each one so is
it predictive is it agile we need to
figure that out by highlighting the key
wordss then we just need to decide on
the topic or principle that where that
the question is asking us to solve and
that again is it about risk is it about
scope is it about project sponsor is it
about negotiation uh it should be pretty
clear highlight the key words and decide
which topic uh the question is asking us
to solve then just get rid of any
answers that don't directly relate to
that project methodology so if the
question is about risk then get rid of
all of the other ones that don't relate
to risk and at the end select one of the
remaining answers now this is the
elimination method you've seen this us
you've seen me use this in the 200 agile
questions uh and the 150 uh PBX 7
questions and a whole bunch of other
questions and answer videos uh that's
the method that I use and it works
really really well uh so I won't go into
that you can view those question and
answer videos separately and just see it
in practice but uh it's pretty good so
it will really really help you make sure
you answer every question because if you
don't answer it you can't get the points
and know your timing it will count down
from 230 minutes you have a minute and
15 seconds for each question because
you've got 180 questions so at 60
Questions when you've got your first
break you should have 155 minutes
remaining and at 120 questions you
should have 80 minutes remaining so make
sure you keep an eye on that clock and
uh don't freak out just try and keep
within that 1 minute and 15 seconds
that's actually part of the real
challenge it's uh that's what makes it
quite
okay so that was nice and easy right if
you've seen it before I apologize but if
you haven't that's really going to help
you now we're going to get into some of
the really really good stuff and this
stuff is really powerful the people and
then the process for project management
let's start with the people and this is
all about things like conflict
negotiation uh working with people
stakeholders and all that sort of thing
and the first three tips are really just
high level things that we're go that you
can default to uh anytime that you're
unsure and the first one is it's so
simple but it makes sense as a project
manager remember our ultimate goal is to
deliver the project surprise surprise
and also to make sure that the project
delivers value so if you have a question
where it says delay the project don't do
it if you're adding St adding uh extra
resources try not to do it um if if
we're doing anything that doesn't
deliver value or that hinders us from
deliver value try to avid it that's our
ultimate goal is to deliver value
amongst everything else and these other
things are really really good as well
with the questions you'll find something
going wrong uh people are unhappy be
direct go direct to the source of the
problem always but also be collaborative
so don't be sneaky don't be underhanded
go directly to the problem and be
collaborative in your response just that
one alone is probably going to be 40 to
50 % of the questions uh that you can
fall back on and then the third one here
is be honest so again don't do sneaky or
underhanded things in your answers you
will have the option to do that be
honest take responsibility and don't
pass the buck to other people uh
remember it's our responsibility to
deliver value above everything else
first three ones pretty simple but now
we're going to get into a little bit
more detail and the detail starts with
problem solving you're going to notice
in your exam questions uh that you uh
that you're going to have a lot of
options you might you know add resources
you might delay the project you might do
this that or the other but what we
really want to be doing is problem
solving you know or you might be getting
rid of a key stakeholder problem solve
always always always default to problem
solve problem solve problem solve
problem solve find the root cause of the
issue before using any money make sure
we're solving the right problem so go to
the directly to where the problem is
happening is it the team is it the
supplier look for the keywords in the
question if they use terms that you are
unfamiliar with in the question then
revert back to the question keywords and
make sure that you're solving the root
cause of the problem so what is the
problem solving process and this is
going to be handy because you might be
at a different phase depending on where
your question is Define the problem
first I identify the root cause next
that's going to be a big one brainstorm
Solutions with your team choose the best
one implement it and then verify that it
worked that is your very simple plan do
check act your Deming cycle you probably
know from your project management uh
education uh we're planning doing
checking and adjusting uh to see if it
worked or if it didn't work so always
default to problem solving if you can
and then always go direct to the the
person to the team or where the issue is
now I mentioned this before but this is
using expert judgment and you remember
this from the pinok guide use the right
expertise so go to the team for their
way of working go to the team for the
estimates on their way of work or on the
work that they're performing sorry the
customer go to the customer for their
requirements and go to the customer for
product feedback so always go direct to
the right person to wherever the issue
is in the question that one is also
going to be extremely useful uh now here
is another one problem solve before you
escalate so ideally look what will
happen is you'll have a few questions
where you may need to escalate but you
but before you do we're probably going
to want to problem solve first so before
escalating to the pro to the project
sponsor try and solve it first be direct
and collaborative if you've got answers
with those options don't suspend the
project if you can help it uh again
sometimes you may need to but don't make
that your first answer try not to
suspend the project if you can help it
because we want to be delivering value
do not add resources or delay items
again if you can help it because we want
to problem solve first so again default
to trying to solve the problem as a
project manager and that's really where
we want to be now conflict people and
conflict uh it happens in the real world
it happens on the PMP exam so this is
what we want to know again uh there's
different uh types of conflict
resolution types you should know these
from your PMP education check out my
udemy course if you don't know it or if
they didn't teach you these things
because it's definitely in my course
problem solving is the one that we want
to go for surprise surprise that's a
winwin approach now compromising is
often the second choice here because
both of us are giving up a little bit
it's known as a lose lose approach but
both parties are giving up a little bit
so that's why you know it's still sort
of even I guess uh now the ones that we
don't really want to go for
accommodating um only accommodate if
there's an extreme power imbalance like
if the project sponsor is forcing us to
do something then it's probably uh there
there's a power and balance there we can
accommodate them so it's a bit of a lose
for us bit of a win for them but again
uh they're in charge they're funding it
so that's up to them probably these ones
forcing it and avoiding it those are the
ones we don't really want to do again
these are in order so ideally problem
solving is first uh senior Executives
can influence other senior Executives so
if uh if there is an issue with other
senior Executives and we don't have the
power to deal with it again go to where
the power level is correct and part of
that is understanding accountabilities
and responsibilities so making sure that
we know who does what because that's
going to influence how we answer the
questions uh the project manager ensures
that the work gets done they also ensure
that the team members are adequately
trained so the team can help here but
the project manager needs to know uh and
needs to make sure that the team is
trained correctly the project sponsor
provides that funding and initiates the
project with the project Charter and
they sign off and accept the
deliverables right at the end uh now
customer can provide feedback on the
product but ultimately the project
sponsor or whoever is funding it will
sign off and accept the deliverables the
team provides estimates on their work
they perform the work vendors are
responsible for their deliverable if
you've got
procurements uh and that's outlined in
the contract if you've got any issues
always go back to the contract I think
I've got more details on this later so
uh oh in the process probably which is
great so great segue into the last two
phases of the PMP Fast Track the agile
and predictive processes you will need
to know again these step-by-step
processes just to know where we're up to
so we know what to do at each phase and
let's start with the agile Fast Track or
the agile process when you're uh when
you're highlighting those keywords if
how do we know if it's an agile pro
project we look for these keywords and
you'll recognize a lot of these
iterations and Sprints the product owner
scrum Master retrospectives
demonstrations or reviews product or
Sprint backlogs daily standups minimum
viable products epics spikes carban
boards and uh remember when you're
answering questions the two different
backlogs uh the Sprint backlog has our
user stories and that's more detailed
the product backlog is and the product
Road M are a high level there more of
our deliverables those are at the Epic
Level so the higher level uh if you're
answering questions around those and
again creating with your team their way
of work you'll have a lot of things that
does relate to people as well the
definition of ready and the definition
of done so the criteria for when work
can begin or the criteria for when a
user story or a feature is complete uh
we create this with the team it's a
collaborative thing that we want to do
in agile if we have the choice we always
want to go for making the work visible
do we send a document no do we send a
report no we want to put all of our
project information on the walls making
it visible or in a team area in our
information radiator so always go for
making things visible use our kban board
to view the work building up in each
area for example testing development
analysis uh is there lots of work
building up here then we need to problem
solve you guessed it we're going to hear
that a lot um and also to limit the work
in progress so we're not context
switching we're not handing off we're
not doing too many tasks we can focus
and uh just really hone in and and get
it done and also again no reports uh
we're doing real things demonstrate the
real things with the customer so not
reports or documents uh if you have
those choices always go for real things
and demonstrating close iners place and
time with your customer and with your
with your team so agile work directly
with the customer again on product
requirements again we don't want big
documents we actually go and talk to the
customer and we say what are your
requirements uh imagine that collocated
face-to-face communication always go for
those things again no documents protect
the team as a servant leader from
blockers from impediments and from
versions you'll definitely have a few
questions there it's our job to protect
the team we want to remove blockers we
want to escalate uh if it's beyond their
level but we can we can take it to the
next level for them and we want to
always coach go for that keyword coach
that team for growth uh if they don't
have the capability that's uh again our
responsibility just do it if you can if
you have that option just get it done
the minimum viable product is usually
where we start it's a small piece we
test it with the market we release it to
the market quickly so that we can see if
it's actually working uh you'll probably
have quite a few questions on MVPs and
minimum viable products just release
something small to get that feedback now
the last two in agile uh know your
ceremonies and know your uh know your
people and your roles so you could
probably tell these to me I hope if
you've done your project management
education uh again check out my udy
course it has all of this stuff it's all
in there the backlog refinement is where
we get together with our customer
developer and tester to break down epics
into smaller user stories add the
acceptance criteria now the key here
always go for smaller if you can so it
has to fit in an iteration uh smaller
releases we're going to go for so that
we can release value sooner always go
for smaller if you can help it iteration
planning we're planning the next
iteration work with a team again the
team get together to do this the daily
standup where we meet together to
discuss what we've done what we're going
to do and if anything is blocking us so
any any impediments and we can remove
those impediments as a servant leader
iteration review where we're uh
demonstrating an actual piece that we've
created with our customer or with the
product owner and a retrospective where
we're improving our process so we say
what worked well what didn't work well
uh what did we learn and what still
puzzles us and that just helps us
improve our way of work working with the
team and we do that at the end of our
iteration so that we can continuously
improve now the roles are important as
well know your product owner they
prioritize the product backlog and if
any if anyone adds scope they can but
the product owner still has to approve
it so if you get questions there the
product owner approves those changes in
scope and they prioritize highest value
to lowest value highest value first
scrum Master is the servant leader they
remove blockers grow grow the team coach
the team facilitates and problem solves
with the team remembering that um making
sure that we've got psychological safety
so our team can speak up the team
themselves in the team we want t-shaped
generalizing Specialists you should know
what this is again uh uh one deep
specialty and many different uh areas of
Interest so they can do a bit of design
a bit of uh business knowledge but uh
their developers at heart so that's our
t-shaped generalizing Specialists and we
can coach them or help uh help grow
those people into t-shaped people if we
need to uh the team delivers value as
outlined in the definition of done oh
and the last one here the team uses
wideband dely so remember uh they
everyone who's working on the item
estimates the effort and the high and
low discuss and they say hey this is why
I think it's low this is why I think
it's high and the team comes to a
consensus that's also planning poker in
agile so if you're estimating in agile
it's probably going to be that method
amazing work now that's our process for
agile process for predictive let's get
into that one next uh and that's the
last part that's our stepbystep
sequential projects and fairly simple
the business case we start with what how
are we delivering value what value are
we delivering that feeds into the
project Charter the project Charter
initiates our project and if if you ever
get questions uh check that project
Charter for the high level goals and the
high level deliverables of our project
so to know why we started it in the
first place if we're working with a team
we use a team charter for our team ways
of working roles and agreements and we
are always improving this and iterating
on this in predictive we're going to
need to know some basic mathematics and
this is for our earned value management
planned value is what we said we would
have completed at this point in time
earned value is what we have actually
completed at this point in time actual
cost is what we have actually spent at
this point in time so knowing these
things they may not even use those terms
just so that you know uh it might just
be your project has spent 500,000 um
it's delivered uh $200,000 worth of
value and this sort of thing um and we
need to know if we're behind or if we're
ahead or if we've spent more than we
should so we need to be able to figure
that out it's really does come back to
basic mathematics you should be able to
figure it out here are a few tips for
these two things if you get SPI schedule
performance index cost performance index
schedule variance or cost variance
always remember cost performance index
or schedule performance index one is the
key so one is where we should be if it's
one if it's over one so 1.25 we've
delivered more value than we said we
would so we're ahead of schedule or
we're under our cost uh but if it's less
than one so 0.85 for example uh then
we've delivered less than what we said
we would have so uh we're over our
budget or we're behind on our schedule I
hope that makes sense and that's it's a
little bit tricky but that way it's like
super easy to remember just remember
anything around the number one more
we've delivered more less we've
delivered less same with schedule
variance and cost variance uh it's
except it's positive or negative so
positive we've delivered more than we
said we would and so we're ahead of our
schedule or under our cost negative so
less than zero we've delivered less than
what we said we would so we're behind on
our schedule or over our cost so pretty
cool and pretty easy and that's a nice
little trick I like that one now you
know just in case you get any of those
questions always know your processes and
always know your plans and documents
remember We Gather our stakeholders
gather the scope uh put it on a schedule
break it down put it on a schedule uh
put it to a cost and a budget uh make
sure that we've got our quality plans in
place gather our resources uh ensure we
know how we're communicating plan our
risk and plan our procurement and if you
get any questions on what to do in any
of these areas go back to your plan so
your schedule management plan for your
schedule your cost management plan for
the budget uh how do we manage scope go
back to your scope management plan each
of these plans has the roles and the
process for how that area is handled so
always remember that and let's go into
these in a little bit more detail
stakeholder engagement plan we use this
one when we need to find people when we
need to add people and who and how do we
engage people on our project we'll
definitely get questions around this
identify those stakeholders uh and
classify them uh you could classify them
any many different ways influence and
impact is one of my favorites uh you
might have the salience model which is a
3D or a cube method which is power uh
urgency and legitimacy I think the three
different things and then we put all of
that information in the stakeholder
register all of our stakeholders and we
use our Communications management plan
for how and what we need to communicate
with those stakeholders if we ever get
questions now Deep dive into scope the
requirements come from the customer uh
or we could get best best practices by
benchmarking against another company but
generally we're going to be working with
our customer directly we turn these into
our scope statement the work breakdown
structure and work packages so where
breaking it down into smaller and
smaller pieces into a work package we
can uh assign to a team member the
customer can verify the scope through
their quality control but the project
sponsor or whoever is paying for the
project is the one who signs off on that
scope once complete and we did say that
a little bit before but uh just
reiterating that so that's part of the
scope process for schedule management we
break down those work packages into
activities on a schedule and then we
place them on a schedule now we need to
know a few things with schedule
management and we've got precedence
diagramming and I've got tricks for all
of these so remember with precedence
diagramming think of it like two
activities and it's in the same order as
the two words so finish to finish the
second activity cannot finish until the
first activity has finished finish to
start the second activity cannot start
until the first activity has finished so
it's just in the same order and this one
here start to finish the second activity
cannot finish until the first activity
has started so if you get questions
around that that's the trick for
precedence diagramming and how to order
order things on your project float or
slack is available room to move an item
without affecting other items or
affecting the project so uh that is what
we need to know there the critical path
is the shortest project duration of P of
tasks that have to be done in sequence
so if we can't move these and we can't
do them in parallel they have to be done
in sequence um then that is going to be
the shortest time we can complete the
project in that's the critical path and
anything that moves on that critical
path then it's going to it's critical so
it moves everything which is a pain
using leads we're leading it forward and
using lags it is lagging behind so we
can move it backwards fast tracking is
always preferred that's performing
activities in parallel um but we can use
crashing which is adding resources and
cost if we are under budget so if we're
under budget we can use schedule cra
cashing which is adding those resources
and cost but that does increase the risk
so always be aware of that you might
have a few answers around risk and
crashing you're probably going to get a
few questions on estimating estimating
with the team know your three-point
estimation or your beta or per
estimation these two are so similar um
but you probably have a question on one
or both of these it's the optimistic
estimate and the most likely estimate
and then the pessimistic estimate so we
add those together and then divide by
three it's just an average so it's so
simple it's just an average so if we'
got four uh five and six and that's 15 /
3 then our average is five that's going
to be our estimate uh now the same thing
for beta except it's four times the most
likely and then to get an average we
need to divide it by six instead because
there's now six numbers I hope that
makes sense um again very
straightforward uh those two you'll
probably get at least one question
bottom up estimation that is adding all
of the lower level items together and
estimating on those and then aggregating
them up into the higher levels of the
project to get an overall estimate that
is more precise so we're we're getting
right into the detail it's more precise
um but if we want a faster oh it takes
longer though too so if we want a faster
method use analogous estimation that's
faster and less precise we just use
information from a similar project or a
similar deliverable to estimate on
whatever we're looking at and we we
might use parametric estimation probably
won't get anything around this but it's
using a parameter like $10 a meter or
$100 an hour all those sorts of things
now one of the best parts about
predictive this is uh the Change Control
process very very important remember in
predictive we can't make a change uh to
any baselined plan or any baselined
deliverable without going through the
formal Change Control process and
generally that Change Control process
looks like this so any stakeholder can
request or raise a change we will need
to note that in the change log so we
note that down then we analyze the
impact of that change to our cost and
schedule because we need to know if it's
going to be good or bad or if it's going
to impact us we take that change to the
approvers that's usually the Change
Control Board uh but it's outlined in
the change management plan remember that
one uh they will give us an outcome
approved rejected or deferred and uh we
communicate that outcome to the
stakeholders and then we note that
outcome in the change log and we proceed
we either go ahead with it or we uh just
proceed as we were that's our change
management process risk management is
also a big deal so remember an issue has
happened already so if it's already
happened we noted in the issue log if it
hasn't happened and it could happen in
the future it's a risk and we note it in
the risk register so we brainstorm those
risks with the team log and update in
the risk register then I classify it by
its likelihood and impact from 1 to five
and you might get some questions around
this on what which risks to do first so
always go with the highest risks early
so if it's a likelihood of three and an
impact of four if we multiply those
together that gives us 12 uh so if
there's one that's five and a five
that's 5 * 5 is 25 that's going to be
higher so we want to do that first so
that's how you figure those out um
remember to multiply those two things
together uh and that's how you determine
which one is the highest if a risk was
previously identified on your project
always remember to use the risk response
that you came up with so if you've got
that risk response there already
try and use it try and use that one
first and know your risk responses for
risks we could accept the risk uh that's
just not doing anything uh we note the
risk down and we just don't do anything
about it we also might want to mitigate
our risk we take action to address uh
that risk specifically so we put it in
controls uh we could transfer the risk
using Insurance um to transfer the risk
or transfer it to another party escalate
the risk if it's out of our control if
we don't have authority to address it or
if it's out of the control of the
project and we can avoid the risk by
just removing the piece of scope that
causes that risk in the first place so
always know your risk responses lastly
we're going to be working with vendors
and procurements on our projects in the
PMP exam the statement of work is what
needs to be done by the vendor or the
seller so always remember that always
check the contract if there is a dispute
so if something's gone wrong and people
can't agree always go back to the
contract uh to figure out what needs to
be done and how to address it and we can
help problem solve with the vendor but
the vendor is ultimately responsible for
their work so don't take on their work
uh make sure that we we can problem
solve with them but they still have to
do it not us and don't delay the project
just use different contract types to
manage the uncertainty so if we've got
clear and stable scope we can use a
fixed price contract if scope is
expected to change we can use a cost
reimbursable uh contract so Cost Plus an
incentive fee for example or if uh if
it's just ongoing with no end in sight
we might just want to use a time and
materials contract so that's just an
ongoing contract as we're closing the
project just know the general closing
steps we always want to uh make sure
that we're handing it off uh and making
sure that it has Del the value that that
they wanted so finalize any open claims
make sure there's no claims on the
project uh without procurements or our
vendors confirm formal acceptance with
the uh with the business so make sure
they've accepted the deliverable and
ensure that transition to operations
then we can formally release our
resources and close any accounts so
people can't uh take money from the
project accounts anymore and then
finalize the Lessons Learned archive
that project information
and measure the project benefits uh
product benefits uh that could be done
sort of anywhere around here we can use
agile and predictive together uh in a
hybrid approach so again instead of
adding resources or delaying the project
we might have a uh a predictive project
and we might need to do some agile have
an agile track at the same time so
understand that we can use hybrid both
agile and predictive at the same time uh
and that might solve some of our
problems and there it is that's a lot so
that's quite a lot but also really for
such a huge amount of information that
was quite a small amount of time uh so I
hope that's helped I mean watch it again
if you need to check it out know that uh
I've I go through it in a bit more
detail in my udemy course plus you can
download the videos plus you can
download the actual uh presentation so
you can review that in your own time and
look at that so that's a little bit more
handy also again giving this away for
free uh because free resources helped me
if this does help you then consider
getting the course to do your pdus to
renew your certificate later on down the
track or just consider my courses in
general uh they're they're not bad
they're a little bit of fun uh and we
have those real projects that we go
through and so yeah there it's it's
actually it's a good bit of fun to go
through I think you'll enjoy it but I
hope you've enjoyed this I've certainly
enjoyed myself it's the fastest way to
get up to speed it's the PMP Fast Track
and I'll see you in the next video bye
for now